---
layout: post
title: "Lecturer Position Opening"
---

**Posted on:** December 11, 2021
**Company:** University of Massachusetts Boston
**Job Title:** Lecturer
**Description**
The Department of Computer Science at the University of Massachusetts Boston seeks applications for a full time, benefited, non-tenure-track lecturer whose primary responsibility will be to teach in and help shape our undergraduate Computer Science major. The initial appointment will be for the Spring 2022 semester, with renewals possible (and expected) for the right person. The lecturer provides instruction at the undergraduate level in the Department of Computer Science (http://www.cs.umb.edu) in a range of computer science topics.


**Responsibilities**
Primary responsibilities include teaching four courses each semester, developing new materials for courses, advising students and overseeing processes for the program to maintain accreditation. Knowledge of assembly programming, computer architecture, and operating systems is highly desirable.


**Additional Info**
UMass Boston provides equal employment opportunities (EEO) to all employees and applicants for employment.


**Contact Info**
To apply, please submit your application consisting of a CV with a cover letter, a statement about your teaching and work experience and the names and email addresses of three references online.

Review of applications will begin on December 20th, 2021 and continue until the position has been filled. For additional details, please email hiring@cs.umb.edu.

