---
title: "CS698"
layout: page
permalink: "/academics/courses/CS698"
---



\
**Practicum in Computer Science (1 credits)**

---

\
This course is intended to enhance student industrial work by combining it with closely related academic studies - of the domain of application of computer skills and of related computer concepts, skills and methodologies. It will enhance academic studies by providing a focus and a context for learning of new concepts and skills. It will help to prepare the student for the transition from an academic program to eventual employment in the computer industry. This course is not open to graduate students in the Ph.D track.

**Note:**
\
Only two CPTs are allowed.

**How to be enrolled in CPT:**

Inquiries about CPT regulations and procedures should be directed to the ISSO as all of their forms are online based. Students do need to be enrolled in this course, see below for CS procedure of enrollment:

Student must fill out the Graduate Advising Form, see back page for CS698 enrollment. Then find a CPT Advisor (CS Faculty member that has taught a graduate course before) to be their advisor and instructor for CS698. On the Graduate Advising Form two signatures are required: CPT advisor and Graduate Program Director. Once the form has been signed, please bring to CS Administrative Assistant, Debbie Wade, S-3-182

**Pre-requisites:**
\
Student must have a Cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 and have taken at least three courses that count for graduate credit.
